SELECT * FROM emp_v20;
This will only display employees with deptno = 20. The newly inserted employee Raj with deptno = 40 will not be visible in the view.


7. Check the Views Created
To check the views that have been created in your MySQL database, you can use the following command:

sql
Copy code
SHOW FULL TABLES WHERE Table_type = 'VIEW';
This will list all the views in the current database. If you want to see the structure (columns) of a specific view, you can use the DESCRIBE command:

sql
Copy code
DESCRIBE new_emp_v20;
This will show the columns and the types of the view new_emp_v20.

8. Create a View with empno, ename, deptno, and dname
Now, let's create a new view that combines information from the emp table (for employee details) and the dept table (for department names). This will require a JOIN operation to get the department name (dname) along with the employee details.

SQL for the View:
sql
Copy code
CREATE VIEW emp_dept_view AS
SELECT e.empno, e.ename, e.deptno, d.dname
FROM emp e
JOIN dept d ON e.deptno = d.deptno;
Explanation:
CREATE VIEW emp_dept_view AS: Creates the view named emp_dept_view.
SELECT e.empno, e.ename, e.deptno, d.dname: Selects the employee number (empno), employee name (ename), department number (deptno), and department name (dname).
FROM emp e: Uses the emp table (aliased as e).
JOIN dept d ON e.deptno = d.deptno: Joins the emp table with the dept table (aliased as d) using the deptno column to link employees to their respective departments.
Check if You Can Insert Data into the View
To insert data into the emp_dept_view, you need to remember that views based on multiple tables (such as the one you just created) can be non-updatable in some cases, because they do not directly correspond to a single table. When a view is based on a join, MySQL typically does not allow you to insert data directly into the view, as it cannot determine how to assign values to the underlying tables (emp and dept) correctly.

Attempt to Insert Data
If you try to insert data into the emp_dept_view, like this:

sql
Copy code
INSERT INTO emp_dept_view (empno, ename, deptno, dname)
VALUES (1234, 'Mike', 20, 'HR');
You will get an error, because it's not possible to insert data into a view that joins multiple tables. MySQL won't know whether to insert the new employee into the emp table or the dept table. The error message might be something like:

vbnet
Copy code
ERROR 1364 (HY000): Field 'dname' doesn't have a default value
This is because the view is trying to insert data into a column (dname) that is derived from the dept table, and you cannot directly insert into such a derived column.